[RUM] DOCS-7807 Enable app hang monitoring (#23230)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/error_tracking/mobile/ios.md

By default, app hangs reporting is **disabled**, but you can enable it and set your own threshold to monitor app hangs that last more than a specified duration using the `appHangThreshold` initialization parameter. A common threshold for reporting an app hang is between 2 and 3 seconds. However, having a customizable threshold makes it easier to find the right balance between fine-grained and noisy observability.

When **enabled**, any main thread pause that is longer than the specified `appHangThreshold` is considered a "hang" in the Error Tracking page.

- **Fatal app hang** - If a hang never gets recovered and the app is terminated, it is reported as a fatal app hang. Fatal app hangs are marked with a "Crash" tag on them in the Error Tracking page.
- **Non-fatal app hang** - If the app recovers from a relatively short hang and continues running, it gets reported as a non-fatal hang.

**Note**: App hangs are reported through the RUM SDK (not through Logs).

#### Enable app hangs monitoring

To enable app hangs monitoring:

1. Make sure Datadog [Crash Reporting][10] is enabled.

> 2. Using the Datadog API, use the [Create a new RUM application][11] or [Update a RUM application][12] endpoint and set the `appHangThreshold` parameter to `true`.

Author: The initialization snippet can be updated via the UI or API. I wasn't sure about how to do it in the UI so I temporarily wrote instructions for the API here but will move them to the proper place :)

CrashReporting.enable()
```

### Add app hang reporting

> App hangs are an iOS-specific type of error that happens whenever the application is being unresponsive for too long.
> 
> By default, app hangs reporting is **disabled**, but you can enable it and set your own threshold to monitor app hangs that last more than a specified duration using the `appHangThreshold` initialization parameter. A common threshold for reporting an app hang is between 2 and 3 seconds. However, having a customizable threshold makes it easier to find the right balance between fine-grained and noisy observability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
App hangs are an iOS-specific type of error that happens when the application is unresponsive for too long.

By default, app hangs reporting is **disabled**, but you can enable it and set your own threshold to monitor app hangs that last more than a specified duration by using the `appHangThreshold` initialization parameter. A common threshold for reporting an app hang is between 2 and 3 seconds. A customizable threshold allows you to find the right balance between fine-grained and noisy observability.
```

App hangs are reported through the RUM SDK (not through Logs).

> When **enabled**, any main thread pause that is longer than the specified `appHangThreshold` is considered a "hang" in the Error Tracking page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When enabled, any main thread pause that is longer than the specified `appHangThreshold` is considered a "hang" in [**Error Tracking**][1]. There are two types of hangs:
```

> - **Fatal app hang** - How a hang gets reported if it never gets recovered and the app is terminated. Fatal app hangs are marked as "Crash" on them in the Error Tracking page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fatal app hang**: How a hang gets reported if it never gets recovered and the app is terminated. Fatal app hangs are marked as a "Crash" in Error Tracking.
```

  {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/error_tracking/ios-fatal-app-hang.png" alt="A fatal app hang in the Error Tracking page." style="width:60%;" >}}

> - **Non-fatal app hang** - How a hang gets reported if the app recovers from a relatively short hang and continues running. Non-fatal app hangs do not have a "Crash" mark on them in the Error Tracking page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Non-fatal app hang**: How a hang gets reported if the app recovers from a relatively short hang and continues running. Non-fatal app hangs do not have a "Crash" mark on them in Error Tracking.
```

  {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/error_tracking/ios-non-fatal-app-hang.png" alt="A non-fatal app hang in the Error Tracking page." style="width:60%;" >}}

> #### Enable app hangs monitoring
> 
> To enable app hangs monitoring:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Enable app hang monitoring

To enable app hang monitoring:
```

> 1. During or after the [instrumentation][13] step of the RUM SDK, update the initialization snippet with the `appHangThreshold` parameter:

Reviewer 2: The `[instrumentation][13]` link seems broken, but I'd consider removing the first sentence at all. Following should already read well for iOS engineers:
```suggestion
1. Update the initialization snippet with the `appHangThreshold` parameter:
```

   ```swift
   RUM.enable(
       with: RUM.Configuration(
           applicationID: "<rum application id>",
           appHangThreshold: 0.25
       )
   )
   ```

2. Set the `appHangThreshold` parameter to the minimal duration you want app hangs to be reported. For example, enter `0.25` to report hangs lasting at least 250 ms.

**Note**: The minimum value this option can be set to is `0.1` seconds (100 ms). However, setting the threshold to such small values may lead to an excessive reporting of hangs. The SDK implements a secondary thread for monitoring app hangs. To reduce CPU utilization, it tracks hangs with a tolerance of 2.5%, which means some hangs that last close to this threshold may not be reported.

> **Note**: Apple only considers hangs lasting more than 250 ms in their hang rate metrics in Xcode Organizer. Datadog recommends starting with a similar value for the `appHangThreshold` (in other words, set it to `0.25`) and lowering it incrementally if you feel you are missing out on observability.

Reviewer 2: Here we recommend to start with 0.25 and lower it if they feel missing out on observability. My gut feeling is that `0.25s` will be in fact super noisy, so people will rather want to higher it rather than lower.

@MaelNamNam what's your take on this?

Reviewer 3: I'd rather stick to `0.25` as [this is the threshold used by Apple in Xcode Organizer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/analyzing-responsiveness-issues-in-your-shipping-app#View-your-apps-hang-rate:~:text=of%20unresponsiveness%20of-,more%20than%20250%20ms.,-The%20Organizer%20window)

> **Note**: Make sure you follow the steps below to get [deobfuscated stack traces][14].

Reviewer 2: The link seems broken 🔗

> **Note**: Make sure you follow the steps below to get [deobfuscated stack traces][14].

Reviewer: I'd consolidate this into a #### Limitations or a Notes: section.

> #### Disable app hangs monitoring
> 
> To disable app hangs monitoring, update the initialization snippet and set the `appHangThreshold` parameter to `nil`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Disable app hang monitoring

To disable app hang monitoring, update the initialization snippet and set the `appHangThreshold` parameter to `nil`.
```
